.TH ODR-DABMOD "1" "April 2022" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
odr-dabmod \- DAB modulator compliant to ETSI EN 300 401
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY odr-dabmod
<configuration_file>
.YS
.SY odr-dabmod
input
(\fB\-f\fR filename \fB\-F\fR format | \fB\-u\fR uhddevice \fB\-F\fR frequency)
[\fB\-o\fR offset][\fB\-G\fR txgain] [\fB\-T\fR filter_taps_file]
[\fB\-a\fR gain] [\fB\-c\fR clockrate] [\fB\-g\fR gainMode] 
[\fB\-m\fR dabMode] [\fB\-r\fR samplingRate] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.YS
.PP
Where input is:
.IP
ETI input filename (default: stdin), or
.IP
tcp://source:port for ETI\-over\-TCP input, or
.IP
zmq+tcp://source:port for ZMQ input, or
.IP
udp://:port for EDI input.
.SH DESCRIPTION
ODR-DabMod is a software-defined DAB modulator that receives or reads ETI,
and generates modulated I/Q data usable for transmission. It can directly 
interface the Ettus USRP devices, and can also be used with other SDR signal sources.
.PP
This I/Q data which is encoded as complex floats (32bits per complex sample)
can be written to a file or pipe, sent to a USRP device using the integrated output
for the open-source USRP Hardware Driver (UHD) or to other software-defined
radio (SDR) devices using the SoapySDR5 library.
.PP
The output of the modulator can also be sent to a GNURadio flow-graph for
further processing, conversion or analysis using a ZeroMQ network connection.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Use file output with given filename. (use \fI\,/dev/stdout\/\fP for standard output)
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
Set the output format (see doc/example.ini for formats) for the file output.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
Set the timestamp offset added to the timestamp in the ETI. The offset is a double.
.IP
Specifying this option has two implications: It enables synchronous transmission,
requiring an external REFCLK and PPS signal and frames that do not contain a valid timestamp
get muted.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Use UHD output with given device string. (use  for default device)
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
Set the transmit frequency when using UHD output. (mandatory option when using UHD)
.TP
\fB\-G\fR
Set the transmit gain for the UHD driver (default: 0)
.TP
\fB\-T\fR
Enable filtering before the output, using the specified file containing the filter taps.
.IP
Use 'default' as taps_file to use the internal taps.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Apply digital amplitude gain.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Set the DAC clock rate and enable Cic Equalisation.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Set computation gain mode: fix, max or var
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Set DAB mode: (0: auto, 1\-4: force).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Set output sampling rate (default: 2048000).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Loop file when reach end of file.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print this help.
.SH SEE ALSO
odr-dabmux(1)
